Update setup guide - Closes #1075 (#1097)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/guides/app-development/setup.adoc

= Creating a new blockchain application
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io>
// Settings
:toc: preamble
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
// Project URLs
:url_modules_registration: architecture/on-chain-architecture.adoc#how-to-add-a-module-to-the-application
:url_guide_config: guides/app-development/configuration.adoc
:url_guide_module: guides/app-development/module.adoc

How to create a new blockchain application with the Lisk SDK.

[TIP]

====
To get started with the development of a blockchain application the most simple and efficient way, it is *recommended* to follow the guide <<bootstrapping-a-new-blockchain-application-with-lisk-commander>>.

If you prefer to not use Lisk Commander to get started with development, the <<manual-setup-alternative-without-lisk-commander>> is explained below.
====

== Bootstrapping a new blockchain application with Lisk Commander

> Lisk Commander offers various commands related to <<initializing-a-new-blockchain-application>>, or generating skeletons for modules, transactions and plugins which can be used to conveniently get started with the development of a blockchain application.

Author: ```suggestion
Lisk Commander offers various commands related to <<initializing-a-new-blockchain-application>> which can be used to conveniently get started with the development of a blockchain application.
```

                                                         variable "LISK_MONITOR_PLUGIN_WHITELIST" can also be used.

  --overwrite-config                                     Overwrite network configs if they exist already

  --seed-peers=seed-peers                                Seed peers to initially connect to in format of comma separated "ip:port".
                                                         IP can be DNS name or IPV4 format. Environment variable "LISK_SEED_PEERS"
                                                         can also be used.

EXAMPLES
  start
  start --network devnet --data-path /path/to/data-dir --log debug
  start --network devnet --api-ws
  start --network devnet --api-ws --api-ws-port 8888
  start --network devnet --port 9000
  start --network devnet --port 9002 --seed-peers 127.0.0.1:9001,127.0.0.1:9000
  start --network testnet --overwrite-config
  start --network testnet --config ~/my_custom_config.json
----

=== Next steps

By installing Lisk Commander and running `lisk init`, you have now a working blockchain application with the default configurations for runnning in a local devnet.

> That's already pretty cool, but now it is needed to extent the application further.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> To do this, you need to register additional modules and/or plugins with your application.

Author: ```suggestion
To extend the application further, you need to register additional modules and/or plugins with your application.
```

Either import external modules and plugins, or create completely new modules and plugins with the Lisk SDK.

> Find more information on the following pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information can be found on the following pages:
```

* xref:{url_modules_registration}[How to register a new module with the application]
* xref:{url_guide_module}[]

== Manual Setup (alternative without Lisk Commander)

How to create a new blockchain application manually without using the Lisk Commander.

=== Dependencies

* Node.js v12 (latest)

> If you are using NVM, install the correct version like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using NVM, install the correct version as shown below:
```

:url_guide_config: guides/app-development/configuration.adoc
:url_guide_module: guides/app-development/module.adoc

How to create a new blockchain application with the Lisk SDK.

[TIP]

====
To get started with the development of a blockchain application the most simple and efficient way, it is *recommended* to follow the guide <<bootstrapping-a-new-blockchain-application-with-lisk-commander>>.

If you prefer to not use Lisk Commander to get started with development, the <<manual-setup-alternative-without-lisk-commander>> is explained below.
====

== Bootstrapping a new blockchain application with Lisk Commander

Lisk Commander offers various commands related to <<initializing-a-new-blockchain-application>>, or generating skeletons for modules, transactions and plugins which can be used to conveniently get started with the development of a blockchain application.

=== Dependencies

* Node.js v12 (latest)

If you are using NVM, install the correct version like this:

[source,bash]
----
nvm install v12.22.1
----

=== Installing Lisk Commander

It is recommended to install Lisk Commander globally with NPM for a convenient usage of the Lisk Commander CLI.

[source,bash]
----

> npm install --global lisk-commander

Reviewer 2: As per commander README we recommend to use `--production`
```suggestion
npm install --global --production lisk-commander
```

----

=== Initializing a new blockchain application

In this example, we want to create a new blockchain application with the name `newApp`.

> Therefore, create a dedicated folder `newApp/`, which will contain the files for the application.

Reviewer 2: Since everywhere in our code we use practice of  `underscore` directory/file names, so I recommend to use the same here in the docs as well.

.Available commands
----
My blockchain application

VERSION
  newApp/0.1.0 darwin-x64 node-v12.20.1

USAGE
  $ newApp [COMMAND]

TOPICS
  account        Commands relating to newApp accounts.
  block          Commands relating to newApp blocks.
  blockchain     Commands relating to newApp blockchain data.
  config         Commands relating to newApp node configuration.
  forger-info    Commands relating to newApp forger-info data.
  forging        Commands relating to newApp forging.
  genesis-block  Creates genesis block file.
  node           Commands relating to newApp node.
  passphrase     Commands relating to newApp passphrases.
  transaction    Commands relating to newApp transactions.

COMMANDS
  autocomplete  display autocomplete installation instructions
  console       Lisk interactive REPL session to run commands.
  hash-onion    Create hash onions to be used by the forger.
  help          display help for newApp
  start         Start Blockchain Node.
----

[TIP]

====
For convenient usage of the application commands, assign an alias to the CLI command:

.Example
[source,bash]
----

> alias newApp="./bin/run"

Reviewer 2: This alias will not work outside the app directory. And also will be confusing to use in another boostrapped app. You can add `pwd` to make this alias available in the shell no matter which directory. 

```suggestion
alias newApp="$(cwd)/bin/run"
```
